## Chalkboard Education Support Bot

Many businesses in Ghana make use of customer service call centers to respond to the queries of customers and resolve any issues they may have. A simple search on-line would produce .a list of jobs available said call centers. In principle, these centers are very instrumental to the business operations as they serve as a contact point to customers who are revenue drivers for the business. However, practicality dictates otherwise. In some cases, the numbers provided for customer service are no longer in service (some have been changed but not updated), in other cases the call experience is marred by the emotional state of calling customers or the receiving agents at a given point in time. Even beyond these issues exist a larger problem of cost. For companies, as they scale up and acquire more customers, there is a need to hire more customer service personnel to cater to the needs of customers. An already existing solution to this problem is the use of automated conversational systems to respond to the queries of customers. Intelligent systems exist that can quickly serve numerous customers at any given time before deciding if human intervention is needed. An example of a working solution is MTN’s Facebook chatbot. Querying this chatbot exposed some flaws as its responses as it could not properly understand what was being asked hence disbursing useless information for the given domain. A domain in this case is simply the scope of questions, statements and classes that all communication can be categorized under. This projects main contribution is to create an intelligent chatbot that can give suitable responses to a wide range of customer queries in a given domain. Chalkboard Education, a startup that hosts an education platform would be used as the host company. Chalkboard education allows schools to make all their content digital and enrolls their students unto a platform to access it. This results in many schools and individual students constantly calling and direct messaging Chalkboard’s customer service support line for help. The company currently have only one person available for this job. By the end of this project, the goal is to build full-functioning chat bot to handle all of Chalkboard’s support issues. Chalkboard Education is a startup that offers e-learning solutions to schools by enabling them to host their content on the cloud to be accessed by their students remotely and offline. They currently have over 4,000 users but one support line. This support line is created to answer and resolve a wide array of customer queries. However, having a single human being doing this is a sub-optimum solution. This project seeks to build a domain specific chat bot for Chalkboard that would handle a wide schope of customer queries to enable Chalkboard need minimal to no human intervention in their support centre.

**Proposed by:** Yoofi Brown-Pobee

**Main Contributors:** Dennis Asamoah Owusu, Yoofi Brown-Pobee
